# Salsa20_Simple_Encrypt_Decrypt
A simple example of encrypting and decrypting a certain message utilizing the Salsa20 encryption

This was a homework assignment for CSCE 4050: Applications of Cryptography. The assignment was split into two parts. The first part was to create an encryption and decryption Python script that would utilize the Salsa20 encryption method. The second part was to simulate being an "attacker" who got their hands on the ciphertext that was generated by encrypt.py and modify it in such a way that the resultuing decryption was different from the original plaintext but still made sense in th context of the overall message.

*The following Python programs are to be ran inside of a Linux operating system, and the programs and the text must be located within the same Linux directory! 
DO NOT RENAME CIPHERTEXT.TXT EITHER!
PLEASE READ ALL INSTRUCTIONS CAREFULLY!!!!*

1. To begin, download and ensure that all files are within the same Linux directory, python3 is installed, and the ciphertexr.txt file is empty. Inside of encrypt.py is a hard-coded default message that would serve as the plaintext message to be encrypted and decrypted in this assignment, so you may change this as you see fit. However, the message cannot be too long, as the decrypt.py code is coded to only read in one line of text from the ciphertext.txt file. Also, leave the secret key value as is.

2. Once ready, you can run the program by typing the following command into the terminal: python3 encrypt.py
This should display some output, as well as put the ciphertext into the ciphertext.txt file. Take note of the nonce hex value, as it is needed in the decrypt.py program and must be changed so the program can work properly.

3. Open decrypt.py and replace the hex_nonce variable value with the one that was given to you by encrypt.py

4. Once ready, you can run the program by typing the following command into the terminal: python3 decrypt.py
This should display some output, and your message will be decoded but be in the format of a byte string
